[DOCU-840] Improve documentation and permission implications of grant… (#24202)
opf/openproject: docs/system-admin-guide/users-permissions/roles-permissions/permissions-guide/README.md

---
sidebar_navigation:
  title: Permissions guide
  priority: 960
description: Understand project permissions in OpenProject.
keywords: permissions, roles, project permissions, global permissions
---

# Permissions guide

Permissions determine what users can see and do in OpenProject. They are assigned to users through project roles and global roles.

Most permissions are self-explanatory. This guide explains the purpose of each permission and highlights important dependencies and behaviors where applicable.

> [!TIP]
> Some permissions only have an effect if the corresponding module is enabled for the project. If a module is disabled, the related permissions are ignored.

## Project permissions

- **Archive project** – Allows users to archive and restore a project.

- **Edit project** – Allows users to access **Project settings** and edit the project's configuration.

- **Select project modules** – Allows users to enable or disable project modules.

- **View project attributes** – Allows users to view project information and attributes.

- **Export projects** – Allows users to export project information.

> - **Edit project attributes** – Allows users to edit project information and attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Edit project attributes** – Allows users to edit project attributes on the overview page.
```

- **Select project attributes** – Allows users to configure which project attributes are available.

- **View project phases** – Allows users to view project life cycle phases.

- **Edit project phases** – Allows users to edit project life cycle phases.

- **Select project phases** – Allows users to activate or deactivate project phases. Inactive phases are hidden from the project overview and project list.

- **Manage members** – Allows users to add, remove and manage project members and their roles.

> - **Invite members by email** – Allows users to invite new users by email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Invite members by email** – Allows users to invite project members by email. This includes both new users to the OpenProject instance and existing users who are not visible to them because of the current [user visibility settings](../../user-visibility).
```

Wording needs some rework here, but that permission does not only grant permission to invite new users, but also existing ones that are not visible

  > [!NOTE]
  > Only available for Nextcloud file storages.

- **Automatically managed project folders: Delete files** – Allows users to delete files from automatically managed project folders.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Only available for Nextcloud file storages.

- **Automatically managed project folders: Share files** – Allows users to share files from automatically managed project folders.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Only available for Nextcloud file storages.

## Work packages and Gantt chart permissions

- **View work packages** – Allows users to view work packages. 
- **Add work packages** – Allows users to create work packages.
- **Edit work packages** – Allows users to edit work packages.
- **Move work packages** – Allows users to move work packages between projects.
- **Duplicate work packages** – Allows users to duplicate work packages.
- **Add comments** – Allows users to comment on work packages.
- **Edit own comments** – Allows users to edit their own comments.
- **Moderate comments** – Allows users to edit comments created by any user.
  > [!IMPORTANT]
  > Users with this permission can edit comments created by other users.

> - **View internal comments** – Allows users to view internal comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **View internal comments** – Allows users to view internal comments.
> [!TIP]
>  [Internal comments](../../../work-packages/edit-work-package/#internal-comments-enterprise-add-on) are only visible to users who have this permission:
```

- **Write internal comments** – Allows users to create internal comments.
- **Edit own internal comments** – Allows users to edit their own internal comments.
- **Moderate internal comments** – Allows users to edit internal comments created by any user.

  > [!IMPORTANT]
  > Users with this permission can edit internal comments created by other users.

- **Add attachments** – Allows users to upload attachments to work packages.

  > [!NOTE]
  > This permission works independently of **Edit work packages**.

- **Manage work package categories** – Allows users to create, edit, and delete work package categories.
- **Export work packages** – Allows users to export work packages.
- **Delete work packages** – Allows users to delete work packages.
- **Manage work package relations** – Allows users to create, edit, and remove work package relations.
- **Manage work package hierarchies** – Allows users to manage parent-child relationships between work packages.

> - **Manage public views** – Allows users to create, edit, and delete public work package views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Manage public views** – Allows users to create, edit, and delete public work package views. This permission also affects other work package related views, such as team planner and calendar public views.
```

- **Automatically managed project folders: Delete files** – Allows users to delete files from automatically managed project folders.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Only available for Nextcloud file storages.

- **Automatically managed project folders: Share files** – Allows users to share files from automatically managed project folders.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Only available for Nextcloud file storages.

## Work packages and Gantt chart permissions

- **View work packages** – Allows users to view work packages. 
- **Add work packages** – Allows users to create work packages.
- **Edit work packages** – Allows users to edit work packages.
- **Move work packages** – Allows users to move work packages between projects.
- **Duplicate work packages** – Allows users to duplicate work packages.
- **Add comments** – Allows users to comment on work packages.
- **Edit own comments** – Allows users to edit their own comments.
- **Moderate comments** – Allows users to edit comments created by any user.
  > [!IMPORTANT]
  > Users with this permission can edit comments created by other users.

- **View internal comments** – Allows users to view internal comments.
> [!TIP]

> >  [Internal comments](../../../work-packages/edit-work-package/#internal-comments-enterprise-add-on) are only visible to users who have this permission:

Author: ```suggestion
>  [Internal comments](../../../../user-guide/work-packages/edit-work-package/#internal-comments-enterprise-add-on) are only visible to users who have this permission:
```
